README.md, before:

Selenium 2.0 builds with its own build technology that's good for Windows, Linux and Mac.

# Quick intro

In the same directory as this file, do ...

   ./go

The order of building modules is determined by the 'go' system itself.  If you want to
build an individual module (assuming all dependent modules have previously been build)
try something like ...

   ./go //javascript/atoms:test:run

In this case, javascript/atoms is the module directory, and "test" is a target
in that directory's build.desc file

As you see 'build targets' scroll past in the log, you may want to run them individually.  
'Go' can run them individually, by target name as long as ":run" is appended (see above).

# Requirements

* Java 6 JDK
* "java" and "jar" on the PATH

Although the build system is based on rake it's **strongly advised** to rely on the version of JRuby in third_party/ that is invoked by "go".  The only developer type who would want to deviate from this is the "build maintainer" who's experimenting with a JRuby upgrade. 

## Optional Requirements

* Python 2.6.x to 2.7  (without this, Python tests will be skipped)

## Internet Explorer Driver

If you plan to compile the IE driver you also need:

* Visual Studio 2008
* 32 and 64 bit cross compilers

The build will work on any platform, but the tests for IE will be skipped silently, if you are not building on Windows.

# Common Tasks

For an express build of the binaries we release run the following from the directory containing the Rakefile:

  ./go clean release

All build output is placed under the "build" directory. The output can be found under "build/dist". If an error occurs while running this task complaining about a missing Albacore gem, the chances are you're using rvm. If this is the case, switch to the system ruby:

  rvm system

Of course, building the entire project can take too long. If you just want to build a single driver, then you can run one of these targets:

  ./go chrome
  ./go firefox
  ./go htmlunit
  ./go ie

As the build progresses, you'll see it report where the build outputs are being placed. Of course, just building isn't enough. We should really be able to run the tests too. Try:

  ./go test_chrome
  ./go test_firefox
  ./go test_htmlunit
  ./go test_ie

Note that the "test_chrome" target requires that you have the separate chrome driver binary available on your PATH. 

If you are interested in a single language binding, try one of:

  ./go test_java 
  ./go test_dotnet
  ./go test_rb 
  ./go test_javascript 

To run all the tests just run:

  ./go test

This will detect your OS and run all the tests that are known to be stable for every browser that's appropriate to use for all language bindings. This can take a healthy amount of time to run.

To run the minimal logical Selenium build:

  ./go test_javascript test_java

To get a list of tasks you could build, do:

  ./go -T

As a side note, none of the developers run tests using cygwin. It is very unlikely that the build will work as expected if you try and use cygwin.

# Tour

The code base is generally segmented around the languages used to write the component. Selenium makes extensive use of Javascript, so let's start there. Working on the javascript is easy. First of all, start the development server:

  ./go debug-server
  
Now navigate to [http://localhost:2310/javascript](http://localhost:2310/javascript) You'll find the contents of the javascript directory being shown. We use the Closure Library for developing much of the javascript, so now navigate to [http://localhost:2310/javascript/atoms/test](http://localhost:2310/javascript/atoms/test)

The tests in this directory are normal HTML files with names ending with "_test.html". Click on one to load the page and run the test. You can run all the javascript tests using:

  ./go test_javascript

# Maven POM files

Ignore the Maven POM file present in the same directory. It is only used for releasing to jars to Maven Repository (public or local), and is not considered the main build mechanism.

# Build Output

"./go" only makes a top-level "build" directory. Outputs are placed under that relative to the target name. Which is probably best described with an example. For the target:

  //java/client/src/org/openqa/selenium:selenium-api

The output is found under:

  build/java/client/src/org/openqa/selenium/selenium-api.jar

If you watch the build, each step should print where its output is going. Java test outputs appear in one of two places: either under build/test_logs for junit or in build/build_log.xml for TestNG tests. If you'd like the build to be chattier, just append "log=true" to the build command line.

# Help with 'Go'

More general, but basic, help for 'go' ...

   ./go --help

Remember, "go" is just a wrapper around "rake", so you can use the standard rake commands such as "rake -T" to get more information about available targets.

# Last word on building the bits and pieces of Selenium

Refer [Building Web Driver wiki page](http://code.google.com/p/selenium/wiki/BuildingWebDriver)

Commit message:

add some more maven verbiage
git-svn-id: http://selenium.googlecode.com/svn/trunk@12747 07704840-8298-11de-bf8c-fd130f914ac9

README.md, after:

Selenium 2.0 builds with its own build technology that's good for Windows, Linux and Mac.

# Quick intro

In the same directory as this file, do ...

   ./go

The order of building modules is determined by the 'go' system itself.  If you want to
build an individual module (assuming all dependent modules have previously been build)
try something like ...

   ./go //javascript/atoms:test:run

In this case, javascript/atoms is the module directory, and "test" is a target
in that directory's build.desc file

As you see 'build targets' scroll past in the log, you may want to run them individually.  
'Go' can run them individually, by target name as long as ":run" is appended (see above).

# Requirements

* Java 6 JDK
* "java" and "jar" on the PATH

Although the build system is based on rake it's **strongly advised** to rely on the version of JRuby in third_party/ that is invoked by "go".  The only developer type who would want to deviate from this is the "build maintainer" who's experimenting with a JRuby upgrade. 

## Optional Requirements

* Python 2.6.x to 2.7  (without this, Python tests will be skipped)

## Internet Explorer Driver

If you plan to compile the IE driver you also need:

* Visual Studio 2008
* 32 and 64 bit cross compilers

The build will work on any platform, but the tests for IE will be skipped silently, if you are not building on Windows.

# Common Tasks

For an express build of the binaries we release run the following from the directory containing the Rakefile:

  ./go clean release

All build output is placed under the "build" directory. The output can be found under "build/dist". If an error occurs while running this task complaining about a missing Albacore gem, the chances are you're using rvm. If this is the case, switch to the system ruby:

  rvm system

Of course, building the entire project can take too long. If you just want to build a single driver, then you can run one of these targets:

  ./go chrome
  ./go firefox
  ./go htmlunit
  ./go ie

As the build progresses, you'll see it report where the build outputs are being placed. Of course, just building isn't enough. We should really be able to run the tests too. Try:

  ./go test_chrome
  ./go test_firefox
  ./go test_htmlunit
  ./go test_ie

Note that the "test_chrome" target requires that you have the separate chrome driver binary available on your PATH. 

If you are interested in a single language binding, try one of:

  ./go test_java 
  ./go test_dotnet
  ./go test_rb 
  ./go test_javascript 

To run all the tests just run:

  ./go test

This will detect your OS and run all the tests that are known to be stable for every browser that's appropriate to use for all language bindings. This can take a healthy amount of time to run.

To run the minimal logical Selenium build:

  ./go test_javascript test_java

To get a list of tasks you could build, do:

  ./go -T

As a side note, none of the developers run tests using cygwin. It is very unlikely that the build will work as expected if you try and use cygwin.

# Tour

The code base is generally segmented around the languages used to write the component. Selenium makes extensive use of Javascript, so let's start there. Working on the javascript is easy. First of all, start the development server:

  ./go debug-server
  
Now navigate to [http://localhost:2310/javascript](http://localhost:2310/javascript) You'll find the contents of the javascript directory being shown. We use the Closure Library for developing much of the javascript, so now navigate to [http://localhost:2310/javascript/atoms/test](http://localhost:2310/javascript/atoms/test)

The tests in this directory are normal HTML files with names ending with "_test.html". Click on one to load the page and run the test. You can run all the javascript tests using:

  ./go test_javascript

# Maven POM files

Ignore the Maven POM file present in the same directory. It is only used for releasing to jars to Maven Repository (public or local), and is not considered the main build mechanism.

# Build Output

"./go" only makes a top-level "build" directory. Outputs are placed under that relative to the target name. Which is probably best described with an example. For the target:

  //java/client/src/org/openqa/selenium:selenium-api

The output is found under:

  build/java/client/src/org/openqa/selenium/selenium-api.jar

If you watch the build, each step should print where its output is going. Java test outputs appear in one of two places: either under build/test_logs for junit or in build/build_log.xml for TestNG tests. If you'd like the build to be chattier, just append "log=true" to the build command line.

# Help with 'Go'

More general, but basic, help for 'go' ...

   ./go --help

Remember, "go" is just a wrapper around "rake", so you can use the standard rake commands such as "rake -T" to get more information about available targets.

# Maven per se

If it is not clear already, Selenium is not built with Maven, it is built with 'Crazy Fun' though that is invoked with 'go' as outlined above so you do not really have to learn too much about that.

That said, it is possible to relatively quickly build selenium pieces for Maven to use.  You are only really going to want to do this when you are testing the cutting-edge of Selenium development (which we welcome) against your application.  Here is the quickest way to build and deploy into you local maven repository, while skipping Selenium's own tests.

   ./go release
   cd maven
   mvn clean install

This sequence will push some seven or so jars into you local Maven repository with something like 'selenium-server-2.0-SNAPSHOT.jar' as the name.

# Last word on building the bits and pieces of Selenium

Refer [Building Web Driver wiki page](http://code.google.com/p/selenium/wiki/BuildingWebDriver)
